Muscular arms and legs with tiny paws attached to the ends allow the squirrel to cling firmly to the crevices in the tree’s rough bark. Long fingers and sharp, curved claws that could be easily mistaken for tiny obsidian scythe blades make holding onto completely vertical objects practically effortless.
Most squirrels on campus are relatively overweight, stuffed with fast food by college students returning to their classes from Green Street. However, the animal I captured with the lens of my smartphone camera looked fit enough to be a star student in the Uni PE program and had not yet been touched by leftover McDonalds burgers and stale fries.
Squirrels mainly eat nuts, fruits, and insects. However, these adorable, fluffy friends may also consume eggs, baby birds, and small mammals!
Squirrels’ eyes sit on the sides of their heads to allow for a more expansive field of vision. Compared to our peripheral vision, it would be like looking at a panorama rather than peering through a narrow viewfinder. Their eyesight is quite sharp, and they have decent color vision, allowing them to distinguish between friend or foe from afar.
The cities, farms, and resources we all depend on require large expanses of land. We deforest great swaths of the earth’s terrain, uprooting any other species that currently occupy the area. The destruction of the natural habitats in which squirrels and other such creatures reside causes a mass displacement of animals. Yes, they may be able to move, but this will result in a shortage of food in the area to which they migrate, causing the deaths of many members of our ecosystem.
Chemicals from pesticides, vehicles, and factories are other major contributors to the destruction of wildlife. These toxins seep into the earth and bodies of water, causing insects and animals alike to ingest them. If the undomesticated consumers are not poisoned to death, they may suffer in other ways such as being unable to reproduce or having unsuccessful litters.
Not all of the harm us humans cause is indirect. Many individuals hunt squirrels to obtain food and furs. Others even go so far as to kill the poor creatures for sport. Additionally, governments often perceive squirrels merely as destructive vessels of disease, encouraging these massacres.